# PiE LOGO Evaluation

## Research QuestionHow can PiE (Programming in Eliza) help people with different programming backgrounds program/learn program more effectively?## Assumptions* For beginners, PiE will make it faster for them to learn basic programming concepts, such as define a variable, make a statement, how to construct a loop, than traditional programming languages, such as JAVA, even LOGO.
* For beginners, PiE can make students more interested in learning how to program than traditional programming languages, such as JAVA, even LOGO.## STUDY DESIGN* To testify the first assumption, we first use survey to determine a students’ background on programming and we first select students 10-20 with no/very little programming experience for our first experiments.
* In the first experiments, we separate students into three groups randomly, named Group A, Group B and Group C, respectively, we give each group one kind of tutorial for three different programming languages: PiE-LOGO, LOGO (we can use the papert one), and JAVA. All these tutorial will cover the concepts of statements, conditions and loop. All of them can try these languages for a specific time (a time in range(15,20)). After the tutorial touring, students will get a test with 10 questions (we can collect from programming introductory books). Their test performances will be recorded along with their behavior in the tutoring session. Behaviors include: their patience (quickly get done or checking command one by one); their completion on the tutorial (the percentage of the parts that been gone through); their success ratio in finishing the tutorial (how many tasks are gone through correctly/ total number they gone through). They will be given a survey to evaluate our tool compare with the others as well.
* After the first experiment, the second experiment will be a take home task. All these students will get 5 take-home tasks using our tool to finish (Draw circle, draw polygon, etc.). These tasks will be not mandatory. We will record the tool usage for these three groups, including (which day, how long, who), for one week. We can analyze the data to testify our assumption. E.g. the users who tried PiE in class will be the most part of the overall people who tried these tasks; the users tried JAVA did not spend time on any of these tasks; after 1 week, people finishing all the tasks are those who tried PiE in class. Usage means a lot, as long as we get some data, the result can be presented.

## TODO
* Here is the webpage for user study: **http://bambool.github.io/pie-logo/index.htm**  Please test it and report bug at any time.

* Design survey for evaluation for the two phases in the user study.